== “Just a normal fucking coffee. Please!”==
== November 17th, 2025 Jaipur==


I had some spare time, and I was a bit hungry—if bit is a valid measurement in your big dictionaries and you have it in you to forgive me for my poor English. Moreover, it was a feeling or a precaution against the feeling that would appear if I didn’t fill my stomach before reaching the airport. Just outside the Gandhinagar railway station, the crowd was relentless, the usual rush and an odd piece of it—a delayed passenger struggling, dragging heavy luggage with both hands. If never, at least today he was ashamed of his physical strength failing him; a feeling of regret for not utilising that New Year–resolution gym membership he had shrouded him. With humiliation and sweat decorating his average-looking face, he somehow managed to catch the train. With moist eyes, a triumphant smile hanging loosely around his lips, he said goodbye to the city with the better air quality and migrated to a worse one.

The autorickshaw drivers shouted, “Sir, where do you wish to reach?” I didn’t respond and passed by him, deeming that as how a local would respond—indifferent to an autorickshaw driver, knowing where he was going. A hundred meters ahead, I halted myself when none of the drivers eyed me—if any of them still had, I would have pretended to be talking on a call to a dear friend who was running a bit late or maybe stuck in traffic but was indeed coming to pick me up. I opened the Rapido app in haste, still afraid that autorickshaw drivers would catch me red-handed—You are booking online? You aware piece of shit! Why didn’t you want to get scammed by us and pay double the fare?—booked a bike and chose the pickup location a hundred meters farther.

I found a Burger King on the Gopalpura bypass road where I ordered a meal and a normal coffee. Normal coffee? You would be tempted to question. Why don’t they have an option called normal coffee with milk? I would answer back with another question. Baffled by that, you would disagree and suggest that I learn the nomenclature, to which I would object by saying, “Just a normal fucking coffee. Please!” For it was humiliating to search the difference between an Americano and a Cappuccino while the waiter waited for me to make a decision. I took out my phone while waiting for my order, plugged in the wired headphones, and started listening to some ghazals. Should I write something? I imagined, but I stared at blank notes for a minute. Then I closed the notes and kicked the table with my fist. Aah, the drama—wouldn’t you say so?

The clock read half past one. I had the flight at half past five. I will book a bike Rapido from here to the airport, I thought, planning ahead in my mind. That shouldn’t take more than fifteen minutes. Taking a Rapido bike to catch a flight is funny. Or sad? The dichotomy of it. The stark contrast of it. The slums and villas of transportation. But the bike allows you to stare at the city in all its directions, allows you to feel the smell of its walls, the mellows of its mass, allows you to feel the peak afternoon sunshine hitting hard on your head—I said to myself in consolation.

Anyway, I ate too much. I should have only had one burger. In fact, I only ordered one. New users on the app usually get a free coupon to get one free burger. Yes, stupidity had me, enslaved me; I don’t know how and why I applied that. Now with two burgers rolling in my stomach, I was sleepy. I had coffee, and I still felt sleepy. That made me mad. They put a sleeping pill in my coffee, I conspired in my head. They might have seen me coming with a big bag and with black shades and might have thought—Well! He doesn’t look like a Jaipurite, let’s loot him. I didn’t have much cash with me. What would they loot? My style? My humour? Or my story? I don’t know. I had none of these. The only thing I was certain of was that I was sleepy and that the normal coffee made me sleepy.

Yes, yes. You were right. I should have ordered a Cappuccino.