== The book is finished—now dead on the cold floor freezing once held his warm hands, and rested on his bumping hairy chest. There were no more pages to it...==
== May 19th, 2025 Jerusalem==
== room: books ==






I am grieving finishing that book, he said. The book sleeps beside his bed, motionless, as if dead body of someone really close, just a hand away his eyes trying hard to gather some tears but the sorrow, no doubt, has leaked now to all his bones, even contaminating his soul—if there is such a thing. The story has ended, the story that breathed in him for weeks, travelled across city with him, borne so many interruptions, and which made him laugh-sad, and sorrowful; the book is finished—now dead on the cold floor freezing once held his warm hands, and rested on his bumping hairy chest. There were no more pages to it, apart from the couple of blank ones- depicting utter silence, the perpetual one that follows death, as if empty pages were for grieving reader to wipe their tears; someone died and their dead body is put for last visit, the last bathe, the one last decoration, though nobody brought flowers—neither that he got them so much while he was alive, nor that he expected a miracle after life has run its course, after a curse-if you can call it that-is lifted, but to his lingering soul’s disappointment no such glorious event occur. Someone is sobbing with his face pressed deep in pillows- if you can hear closely with your ears pressed against his door, you would know something beautiful ceased to exist and that sob was a book griving sob. 

I shouldn’t have finished it this fast. 
Oh no.
What did I do?
I am a murderer. 
He muttered.

It has died young, Anna, he said. It was so alive, so lively, so in motion, in his mind an hour ago, and now it’s gone. More then the fact that this book would never be alive again, the story—however sad, or happy it be—would be forgotten in sometime, the memory of it would be effaced was more the reason for grieving. The absurd continuity with which world carries itself, where the death seems no more than finishing a book, depressingly which, not in all cases, have enough audience; deaths so solo that no one cared for the dead body; some unpublished autobiographies only read by their writers—how tragic this all is. How painful it is to finish reading a book and to grieve for it- no one knows better than Theodor at this dark, dull moment. 