== The only thing that is standing between me and my first book, I thought, is cigarettes. I neither own a lighter to light the cigarette nor a cigarette to put it in my mouth to get over this self-consciousness.==
== May 4th, 2025 The Guard of a Museum==
== room: books ==




I finished reading the book last night. Most museums in Bangalore have witnessed my forced presence already when I searched online for them. The one which didn’t sound boring was this, the Museum of Modern Art. I was here last year. This time I brought the laptop with me thinking I would get some writing done in this open cafeteria, in peace. I sat and opened my laptop but it seemed so pretentious that I had no subject to write on. The only thing that is standing between me and my first book, I thought, is cigarettes. I neither own a lighter to light the cigarette nor a cigarette to put it in my mouth to get over this self-consciousness. I have to forget everything I have learnt to write anything. I have to be free of myself, I remind myself.  But all I have now is this coffee and this croissant. I sit in front of them as they get cold, staring at the blank screen. The idea was in good spirits. Surrounded by art amidst this cramped noisy city wasn’t a bad place to start and jot down a couple of paragraphs. “Oh, good grief”, I murmur and rush out of the cafe leaving coffee and croissant on the table as it is. I clear the bill on my way out. The cashier gives me a look but doesn't care to ask. I am in no mood to be bothered too. I come out of the museum. The streets are desolate around the museum but you could hear the traffic two streets down from the main road. It starts to drizzle.  

An elderly man, apparently out walking his dog, rushing from the opposite side comes to a halt near me and stretches out the umbrella. 

“Here!” He says. “Thank you” I respond. The man strikes me as handsome for his age. He might have been irresistible to girls in his youth. “I am just waiting for my Uber. It will be here any moment.” He nods his head. The dog whines and gathers himself around his feet. He bends down to pat his back, rights himself and says- “Chose a wrong day to stare at arts huh!”. The corner of his lips widens and from under his chapped lips peers his aged teeth. “Sunday it is”, I make an attempt to justify myself. “Oh yeah, alright, I see”, he looks shocked at the fact that he couldn't remember today being Sunday, “Isn’t everyday same?” He adds further- “Monday could be Sunday too if all the crazy people in the world decide not to work” and lets out a free-flowing laugh. His laugh gets mixed with the sound of rain and only travels a few meters. The dog wriggles his tail and seemed to enjoy his laugh more than me. He jumps a couple of times and tries to stand on his two rear legs waiting for his master to acknowledge his excitement. The old man bends down, pats the dog again, bit longer this time until the dog calms down, and straightens himself up. 

“Oh no, My uber got cancelled” I shout. The disappointed in my voice is more than visible. I don’t wish to keep this old man waiting for too long. I suggest he keeps going. I will find solace under the tree some fifty meteres away. “Be my guest and wait until rain stops”, he makes a polite invitation. The only reponse to a polite invitation is to say, “Thank you for your invitation, I appreaciate it”, and to hope that requester would not insist much. Before I could respond, the old man starts walking, “come on yong man! You know rains in here, they are not at all predictable”, and marches on, expecting me to follow. I do not see any harm in following this old charming man who walks his dog  wearing a shorts and a polo tshirt.

Hundred meters down the street, he takes a right and stops in the middle of the street in front of a two story house painted all white, “This is me”, and opens the iron grilled main gate. He lets go of the leash and dog runs up the staircase. He explains about ground floor being on rent, about why there is no lift, and about how he loves walking. “I walk ten thousand steps everyday”, he announces in a voice that is full of pride and satisfaction that partially come from his back not hurting and his joints still all good. “Come on in young man, what’s your name?” He asks me while leading me into the hall. “Oh, I am Rohan”. “Nice to meet you Rohan, Myself Mr. Roy” He carries on a firm handshake, “retired army colonel”. “I see now, so that’s the secret of your fitness, army huh”, He signals me to have a seat at the sofa and make himself comfortable on a wooden rocking chair. I assume this to be the living room. There is a big 27 inch TV on the front wall. There are wine glasses on the table and beside that half empty bottle of Sala Brut. There is Hindustan Times newspaper and there is bowl in the corner half filled with pedigree. The dog is sitting on the front sofa which I assume to be his regular spot. The dog seems to be bit tired of walking and slips into a quick nap. Mr. Roy gets up and looks back from the other door of the room which opens to the inside of the house, “What do you prefer young man- tea, coffee, or wine?” I don’t want the old man to make something for me. It sounds bit disrespectful too to make a old man make coffee for his young guest. “No, I am fine Mr. Roy. I would take some water. Thanks”. “It’s okay, you can have some tea, I am making it for myself. I will make half a cup more today”, and he dissappears into the kitchen I guess. I happen to get a chance now to look around the room. There is not much to it apart from couple of Lord Krishna paintings hung from the side wall. What grabs my attention is a family photo in the glass wardrobe beside TV. I observe it closely. Mr. Roy seems 10 years youger in this family photograph, on the right side is a young woman- most probably his daughter, on his left is a older woman with short white hair barely touching her shoulders- most probaly his wife. Mr. Roy brings two cup of tea in a plate along with some crackjack biscuits. He hands over one cup of tea, relaxes on the rocking wooden chair, and suddenly commands- “Captain! It’s no time to sleep. Wake up!”. The dog looks bit annoyed, straighten himself up, and get ready to contribute in the conversation between two man of a different age group. “What a unique name for a dog Mr. Roy!”. “Go and finish your leftover food from morning”, still addressing to the dog he commands. Then he turn his head over to the side, towards me, and replies, “Yes yes. He is a very disciplined dog I tell you.”  That seems to me the right time to quench my curiosity and I shoot, “You live alone Mr. Ray?” “No no, I don’t. I have got captain. He is no less than a human. Isn’t that captain?” He looks at the dog and makes a cute pout. I didn’t think men were capable of making such pouts but Mr. Roy proves me wrong. “But he is stubborn as us you see. He don’t want to eat the leftover pedigree. He desires chicken now.” “He is smartest among all of us Dr. Roy”, I say trying to crack a joke. Mr. Ray bursts into laugh surprisingly more than my joke deserved. He kept laughing a little for a minute, “That was a good one young man!”, then he laughs a bit more, “smartest he is”, and sips his tea looking outside window. The drizzle has turned into a downpour now. The water droplets splash through the window on old man’s face. He makes no effort to resist it. He lets the cold droplets fall on his face and sips warm tea. 