== Let me be the mud that draws the footprints.==
== December 26th, 2025 Bangalore==
== room: creation ==

The urge to create something beautiful. It wasn't that this was sudden. It was there, lingering under rough papers, pencil sketches, in diaries, in videotapes, in the hush of a shivering voice. It manifested in multiple ways, each time finding a new channel if another was blocked. Sometimes it came in bursts. Those nights, I stood awake and saw the city waking up to a grey lump of clouds, behind which the sun rose and set, without any glimpse of humankind.

Something in which winter seeps through my pores, summer walks by, spring stays for an extended period of time. My eyes witnessed it all without any resistance. Something of my own, I called it. My eyes saw everything differently. Everything was a metaphor for me. They called me mad. Nothing was as it appeared. I told them, leave me alone for a moment in the sunlight. Let me rest here. Let me fall asleep here. Let it rain and soak me. Let me be the mud that draws the footprints. Do you remember that? The footprints? Wasn't it the name of an English book we read together? Let me be the grass that grows gradually among the large pine trees. Let me be what feeds the horses and lives in their bellies. You said it was gross. The urge grew stronger. Let me create something of my own, I said all the time. If it wouldn't be beautiful, at least it would be mine—my own, my mirror, and my face.

The blast of creativity causes disruptions, the nights that turn dreamless. Therefore, those poems. The hands of those men carved on it. Their smell perpetuated through time and space. Their voices are louder than ever today. I hear it clearly.

There is so much abstraction in my mind that it is a mess. I tried simplifying it, hoping that if I could isolate a single image, perhaps the drawing would be easier. But they were overridden by many more. Beneath each lay another knot. All attempts were in vain.

Thus, I decided to spend more time in my mind. You could say that's where it all went absurd. For if you look forward to a conclusion, there is none. If you look for meaning in there, there is none. Nothing comprehensible. Have you seen those abstract paintings you stand before for hours and couldn't grasp? I recognized them instantly. They made sense to me. They looked like the matter I was made of. The colors were similar to my thoughts, the palette like the weather.