== Beyond that lay the grey, vast ocean, as far as I could see, until it met with the sky — which I now know it doesn’t — which I had believed in my childhood to be a real geographical place, the existence of which might have been among one of the early reasons for my interest in travelling. How I dearly desired to go to such a place where sky and sea just merged — all of the sea in a line touching all of the sky — where the universe kissed, where the sun rose and set, one day after another.==
== August 6th, 2025 Varakala==



“Is this all you have?”
The patchy beard on his cheekbones guarded his face like an uneven wired fence. He had combed his hair back and tied it behind his head, and pointed his fingers towards the menu on the desk.
“Everything in it?”
“Yes, except the breakfast.” A slight smile was sprinkled on his face as he answered, the way one would sprinkle a pinch of salt on an omelette.

It was half past two. I browsed through the menu, with my eyes tired and legs sore from the three-kilometer walk I subjected myself to from the railway station. My train had reached at half past one. I had always admired trains for their slow nature and comfort. There was space for you to walk in the corridor, a door to stand on and watch the passing-by villages quenched by rain and grown in excessive grass, sometimes to waist height, sometimes sprouting from the smallest of holes — from a tightly bricked pavement to a crack in the outer wall.

Another parallel track ran beside us. When the train turned my side, there appeared a visible slight space between the wagons, as if the space between two adjacent words — when together they produced some meaning — or more like a hyphen between two inseparable words. The tracks squeaked underneath, and the sky shone brighter above. The wind rose and fell. With it, the sound of the train itself. The kit-kit music when it shook itself left and right — how unique it sounded — and was there anything else in this world that resembled it, even slightly, that could linger for days? And it used to — after the almost fifty-hour train journey during college to back home — the train number 22476 — had travelled so much in it that I still remembered the train number.

“One veg pasta, please.”
“White or red?”
“What do you mean by white or red?”
“The sauce, sir!” I wasn’t aware of the existence of red sauce pasta. It was easier to not sound stupid anymore and just pick the easier and known option.
“White,” I said.
All I got was an “okay” and he went inside. It was after him confirming that it would take maybe half an hour and if I was okay with it — which I was, since I hadn’t had anything solid to eat apart from a protein bar, that too leftover from the last trip and had remained in the bag, waiting patiently for me to commence a new trip where I would forget to pack the freshly ordered bars.

In front of me was an office-like complex, the Government of Kerala, Department of Fisheries, it read, in front of which was decorated with coconut trees standing at almost equal distances. Beyond that lay the grey, vast ocean, as far as I could see, until it met with the sky — which I now know it doesn’t — which I had believed in my childhood to be a real geographical place, the existence of which might have been among one of the early reasons for my interest in travelling. How I dearly desired to go to such a place where sky and sea just merged — all of the sea in a line touching all of the sky — where the universe kissed, where the sun rose and set, one day after another.
The tides were high.
“It is not good for surfing,” said one of the big guys at the reception earlier while answering my inquiry about it. The sky looked pale blue, the sea looked pale blue. The coconut trees had lost their greenness and reflected pale blue too. My eyes too would have looked pale blue if anyone stared in them — if not now, in the next two to three days for sure.

The sun shone brighter the next day. I pulled a chair from under the shed on the terrace, sat on the chair and rested my legs on the front parapet. The coconut trees had regained their greenish-yellow colour in the sunlight. There was the sound of the waves getting crushed by the receding water of the previous wave, there were crows cawing, the chatter of the early risers waiting for their breakfast — some of them sat by themselves, some in groups, mostly happy, occasionally contemplative.

A girl in a black top rose from her seat, lit her cigarette and came into the sunlight.
How did this long inhale feel for her, I thought, as she looked up at the sky, closed her eyes, her hand holding the cigarette came down slowly, and slowly she exhaled the smoke out of her mouth towards the sea. I was expecting more of a performance from her — maybe the smoke being blown from the nose, maybe murmuring of a song — something creative.
If a cigarette couldn’t serve the purpose, it would be such a waste. Even though I thought it was stupid to smoke, I had always dreamed of myself smoking. Not this kind of smoking but a different kind which suited me. I will never know until I try.
“Can I borrow one?” I asked.
“Just one?” she replied. Her head rose.

While returning back, sitting on a side lower seat by the big glass window that couldn’t be opened but could be broken only in case of emergencies, I felt no need for a human interaction — largely for the reason that the conversations were predictable, starting with inquiring where they were from, what they did — which most of the time was working in IT and not something exotic, ranging from collecting crystals, studying rocks, saving fishes from being slaughtered, to being a carpenter — ending with those same repetitive jokes on how bad desk jobs were.

The ones who were mildly creative tried to converse about the books they read and how it made them feel. But mostly, how average hobbies people had, and how dull they sounded talking about it — felt stupid.
It felt stupid to be part of such conversations. If running away and disappearing in the mist that had shrouded the town by the evening was an option, I would have chosen that. But it wasn’t. That was not the choice.
There was no good choice.
The choice was not to listen.
The choice was to not let the dullness dwell in me.
Where were all the interesting people?
Where did they stay while travelling if not in the shared hostels?
Did they not prefer sleeping on a bunk bed?
Did it ruin the purity of their soul — for it didn’t know filth?
Or was it that they had seen all the filth and then started appreciating the beauty, and made a choice for the beauty?
The only good thing that could come out of it now was to write about what felt stupid.

I got the book out from the front pocket of my rucksack, pushed the bag under the berth, and took a pillow from the upper berth among all the pillows that were there, lay down on the side lower berth to start reading. The sunlight from the evening sun glinted on the window glass as I turned page after page, immersed in reading, slightly worried about how childish the title of the book — A Man in Love — felt.
How stupid it looked — a grown man reading a book with such a title?
